So what is SASS?
And here, I just wrote it a bit differently, you can use both notations and I also note it SCSS in
the title. Now SASS and SCSS are essentially the same,
their syntax varies slightly
and I will explain what the difference is and how their syntax differs in a second
but first of all, let's find out what it is in general,
what is this SASS/SCSS thing about?
Well we obviously got CSS, that is what you learned in this course and no worries, what you learned
still is valid,
SASS builds up on it,
it doesn't introduce new rules,
it doesn't render your CSS knowledge you got in this course useless.
Instead SASS stands for Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets and SASS, as I already mentioned, does not run
in the browser,
instead it extends CSS during development only.
Now what does this mean?
You can think of it like this; during development,
you as a developer, you want to save time and you want to write clean reusable code that's easy to maintain
and to adjust. With CSS, you can quickly end up with huge CSS files,
with dozens, hundreds or thousands of rules. Now managing this can be cumbersome and you also find yourself
repeating certain things a lot, so it would be nice if you had a more condensed, easier syntax,
maybe something that allows you to nest CSS selectors into each other for example and SASS simply offers
such features
and in this module, you'll of course learn about all the important SASS features and I will show you in
a real example how it would work.
The important thing is of course that you can only use it during development, so it needs to be compiled
to normal CSS before you can ship it to production because the browser doesn't understand SASS.
So the idea is that you as a developer can write SASS/SCSS code and then you let some tool compile it
to normal CSS and that's exactly what we will start with in this module thereafter,
once we're done with these slides, we will install that tool and we will find out how it works and what
it actually does for us.
Now before we dive into that tool, let's quickly have a look at the SASS features we got.
There are a lot of features and I will walk you through the important ones here in this module.
What we can generally do with SASS is we can nest CSS rules to shorten our code,
we can inherit from other rules so that we don't have to repeat ourselves as often,
we can use helper functions to achieve certain things, like making a color a bit more brighter or things
like that. We can add
mixins to create reusable snippets of code you could say and I will show you how this works.
We can split our code into multiple files easily with partials. We can define variables,
let's say if a certain hex code of a color gets used a couple of times on our page, instead of writing
that hex code every time and changing it whenever we change the color, we can simply store it in a variable
and use that variable and we can also use conditions and loops and a couple of other features.
Again, you will see them in practice in this module.
So with that, let's move towards the practice and let's actually install that tool that will compile
our SASS code to CSS code.